CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random Values Documentation (#698)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-693/CWE-330/README.md

PRNGs suitable for encryption must mix non-computational sources such as a mouse, keyboard, or even  Lava Lamps [LavaRnd] to be random enough for encryption.

Python's `random` module is a standard library module that provides functions to generate pseudorandom numbers for various distributions. This module can lead to a vulnerability due to its predictability. The random module is based on the Mersenne Twister `MT19937`
[[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995)], which is a deterministic algorithm, that, given a particular input, will always produce the same output [[Wikipedia 2024](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)]. An attacker knowing or guessing the seed value can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two `Random` class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.

> Therefore, the `random` module is unsuitable for applications requiring high security as it does not incorporate cryptographic randomness, which means it is not resistant to reverse engineering. Its limited entropy makes it easier for attackers to deduce the internal state of the generator and predict future outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, the `random` module is unsuitable for applications requiring security as it does not incorporate cryptographic randomness, which means it is predictable. Its use makes it easy for attackers to deduce the internal state of the generator and predict future outputs.

```

"Reverse engineering" isn't the issue. The problem is that you're using the wrong algorithm.

> Instead, for generating random numbers, it is recommended to use a more robust option, such as Python's `secrets` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, for generating random numbers for security purposes, use an appropriate option, such as Python's `secrets` module.

```

The `random` algorithm is robust, it's just robustly wrong when you use it for the wrong purpose.

# CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random Values

When programming cryptographic functions ensure to use a Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) source that is random enough to be suitable for encryption.

Certain algorithms can create sequences of numbers that approximate random distributions. These algorithms, known as pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) are numbers generated by a computational process and appear random, even though they are produced by a deterministic algorithm. This means that, unlike truly random numbers, which are inherently unpredictable, pseudorandom numbers are generated in a predictable sequence as long as you know the starting point, or the seed, and the algorithm used to generate them.

PRNGs suitable for encryption must mix non-computational sources such as a mouse, keyboard, or even  Lava Lamps [LavaRnd] to be random enough for encryption.

Python's random module is a standard library module that provides functions to generate pseudorandom numbers for various distributions. This module can lead to a vulnerability due to its predictability. The random module is based on the Mersenne Twister `MT19937`

> [MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998] (https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995), which is a deterministic algorithm, that, given a particular input, will always produce the same output [Wikipedia 2024](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm). An attacker knowing or can guessing the seed value can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two Random class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.

Reviewer 2: I messed up the formatting

```suggestion
[[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995)], which is a deterministic algorithm, that, given a particular input, will always produce the same output [[Wikipedia 2024](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)]. An attacker knowing or can guessing the seed value can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two Random class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.
```

Therefore, the random module is unsuitable for applications requiring high security as it does not incorporate cryptographic randomness, which means it is not resistant to reverse engineering. Its limited entropy makes it easier for attackers to deduce the internal state of the generator and predict future outputs.

Instead, for generating random numbers, it is recommended to use a more robust option, such as Python's `secrets` module.

> 

Reviewer 2: double blank line
```suggestion
```

## Non-compliant Code Example

In `noncompliant01.py`, we generate a random web token using Python's random module. This makes the token predictable and vulnerable to exploitation, as the sequence of numbers is always the same for any specified seed value.

*[noncompliant01.py](noncompliant01.py):*

```py
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
""" Non-compliant Code Example """
import random

>  
>  
> def generate_web_token():
>     """Poor random number generator"""
>     return random.randrange(int("1" + "0" * 31), int("9" * 32), 1)
>  
>  

Reviewer 2: remove empty space
```suggestion

def generate_web_token():
    """Poor random number generator"""
    return random.randrange(int("1" + "0" * 31), int("9" * 32), 1)

```

#####################
# attempting to exploit above code example
#####################
TOKEN = generate_web_token()
print(f"Your insecure token is: {TOKEN}")
```

## Compliant Code Example

 [!NOTE]
> The `secrets` module `os.urandom()` is called by `"secrets.token_urlsafe()"` causing its cryptographic strength to depend on the operating system and its entropy sources.
Pure randomness can not be produced in software alone [[cloudflare 2017]](https://blog.cloudflare.com/randomness-101-lavarand-in-production/).

 The `compliant01.py` solution uses the `secrets` module to generate the random numbers. The `secrets` module provides access to the most secure source of randomness that an OS provides through `os.urandom()`.

> 

Reviewer 2: remove double blank
```suggestion
```

*[compliant01.py](compliant01.py):*

```py
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
""" Compliant Code Example """
import secrets

>  
>  
> def generate_web_token():
>     """Better cryptographic number generator"""
>     return secrets.token_urlsafe()
>  
>  

Reviewer 2: empty space removed
```suggestion

def generate_web_token():
    """Better cryptographic number generator"""
    return secrets.token_urlsafe()

```

|[[Python docs - secrets]](https://docs.python.org/3/library/secrets.html)|Python Software Foundation. (2023). secrets - Generate secure random numbers for managing secrets [online]. Available from: [Python docs - secrets](https://docs.python.org/3/library/secrets.html) [accessed 23 August 2023].|
|[[Python docs - os]](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html)|Python Software Foundation. (2023). os - Miscellaneous operating system interfaces [online].Available from: [Python docs - os](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) [accessed 23 August 2023].|
|[sonar docs - Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/)|Sonar Rules - Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive. Available from [Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/) [accessed 7 September 2023].|
|[[Cloudflare 2017]](https://blog.cloudflare.com/)| [Randomness 101: LavaRand in Production (cloudflare.com)](https://blog.cloudflare.com/randomness-101-lavarand-in-production/)|
|LavaRnd|[LavaRnd](https://www.lavarand.org/)|

> [MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998] Mersenne Twister: A 623-Dimensionally
> Equidistributed Uniform Pseudo-Random
> Number Generator, available from: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995), [accessed December 2024]|

Reviewer 2: broken formatting

```suggestion
|[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998]|Mersenne Twister: A 623-Dimensionally Equidistributed Uniform Pseudo-Random Number Generator, available from: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995), [accessed December 2024]|
```

# CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random Values

When programming cryptographic functions ensure to use a Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) source that is random enough to be suitable for encryption.

Certain algorithms can create sequences of numbers that approximate random distributions. These algorithms, known as pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) are numbers generated by a computational process and appear random, even though they are produced by a deterministic algorithm. This means that, unlike truly random numbers, which are inherently unpredictable, pseudorandom numbers are generated in a predictable sequence as long as you know the starting point, or the seed, and the algorithm used to generate them.

PRNGs suitable for encryption must mix non-computational sources such as a mouse, keyboard, or even  Lava Lamps [LavaRnd] to be random enough for encryption.

> Python's random module is a standard library module that provides functions to generate pseudorandom numbers for various distributions. This module however can lead to a vulnerability due to its predictability. The random module is based on the Mersenne Twister [Mersenne Twister - an overview | ScienceDirect Topics], which is a deterministic algorithm, hence, if an attacker knows or can guess the seed value, they can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two Random class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.

Reviewer 2: however is a word reserved for AIs ;P, updated link to match references linking directly to their publication assuming that is what we want.

```suggestion
Python's random module is a standard library module that provides functions to generate pseudorandom numbers for various distributions. This module can lead to a vulnerability due to its predictability. The random module is based on the Mersenne Twister `MT19937`
[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998] (https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995), which is a deterministic algorithm, hence, if an attacker knows or can guess the seed value, they can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two Random class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.
```

Therefore, the random module is unsuitable for applications requiring high security as it does not incorporate cryptographic randomness, which means it is not resistant to reverse engineering. Its limited entropy makes it easier for attackers to deduce the internal state of the generator and predict future outputs.

> Instead, for generating random numbers, it is recommended to use a more robust option, like Python's secrets module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, for generating random numbers, it is recommended to use a more robust option, such as Python's `secrets` module.

```

## Non-compliant Code Example

In `noncompliant01.py`, we generate a random web token using Python's random module. This makes the token predictable and vulnerable to exploitation, as the sequence of numbers is always the same for any specified seed value.

*[noncompliant01.py](noncompliant01.py):*

```py
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
""" Non-compliant Code Example """
import random
 
 
def generate_web_token():
    """Poor random number generator"""
    return random.randrange(int("1" + "0" * 31), int("9" * 32), 1)
 
 
#####################
# attempting to exploit above code example
#####################
TOKEN = generate_web_token()
print(f"Your insecure token is: {TOKEN}")
```

## Compliant Code Example

 [!NOTE]
> The `secrets` module `os.urandom()` is called by `"secrets.token_urlsafe()"` causing its cryptographic strength to depend on the operating system and its entropy sources.
Pure randomness can not be produced in software alone [[cloudflare 2017]](https://blog.cloudflare.com/randomness-101-lavarand-in-production/).

>  The `compliant01.py` solution uses the secrets module to generate the random numbers. The secrets module provides access to the most secure source of randomness that the os provides through `os.urandom()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The `compliant01.py` solution uses the `secrets` module to generate the random numbers. The `secrets` module provides access to the most secure source of randomness that an OS provides through `os.urandom()`.

```

|[Bandit](https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)|1.7.4|[B311](https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/blacklists/blacklist_calls.html?highlight=B311#b311-random)|Standard pseudo-random generators are not suitable for security/cryptographic purposes.|

## Related Guidelines

|||
|:---|:---|
|[SEI CERT C Coding Standard](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/c/SEI+CERT+C+Coding+Standard)|[MSC30-C. Do not use the rand() function for generating pseudorandom numbers](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/c/MSC30-C.+Do+not+use+the+rand%28%29+function+for+generating+pseudorandom+numbers)|
|[SEI CERT C++ Coding Standard](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=88046682)|[MSC50-CPP. Do not use std::rand() for generating pseudorandom numbers](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/cplusplus/MSC50-CPP.+Do+not+use+std%3A%3Arand%28%29+for+generating+pseudorandom+numbers)|

> |[The CERT C++ Secure Coding Standard](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=88046682) |[VOID FLP02-CPP. Avoid using floating point numbers when precise computation is needed](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=88046687)|

Reviewer 2: FLP02-CPP is not accessible, suggest to remove it.

```suggestion
```

|[[Python docs - secrets]](https://docs.python.org/3/library/secrets.html)|Python Software Foundation. (2023). secrets - Generate secure random numbers for managing secrets [online]. Available from: [Python docs - secrets](https://docs.python.org/3/library/secrets.html) [accessed 23 August 2023].|
|[[Python docs - os]](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html)|Python Software Foundation. (2023). os - Miscellaneous operating system interfaces [online].Available from: [Python docs - os](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) [accessed 23 August 2023].|
|[sonar docs - Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/)|Sonar Rules - Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive. Available from [Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/) [accessed 7 September 2023].|
|[[Cloudflare 2017]](https://blog.cloudflare.com/)| [Randomness 101: LavaRand in Production (cloudflare.com)](https://blog.cloudflare.com/randomness-101-lavarand-in-production/)|
|LavaRnd|[LavaRnd](https://www.lavarand.org/)|

> |[Science Direct - Mersenne Twister]|[Mersenne Twister - an overview / ScienceDirect Topics](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/mersenne-twister)|

Reviewer 2: wrong ref, their publication is public available.

```suggestion
[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998] Mersenne Twister: A 623-Dimensionally
Equidistributed Uniform Pseudo-Random
Number Generator, available from: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995), [accessed December 2024]|
```

# CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random Values

When programming cryptographic functions ensure to use a Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG) source that is random enough to be suitable for encryption .

Certain algorithms can create sequences of numbers that approximate random distributions [[sonar 2024](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/)]. These algorithms, known as pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) are numbers generated by a computational process and appear random, even though they are produced by a deterministic algorithm. This means that, unlike truly random numbers, which are inherently unpredictable, pseudorandom numbers are generated in a predictable sequence as long as you know the starting point, or the seed, and the algorithm used to generate them.

PRNGs suitable for encryption must mix non-computational sources such as a mouse, keyboard, or even  Lava Lamps [LavaRnd] to be random enough for encryption.

> Python's random module is a standard library module that provides functions to generate pseudorandom numbers for various distributions. This module can lead to a vulnerability due to its predictability. The random module is based on the Mersenne Twister `MT19937`

Reviewer 3: Backticks around `random` would make it clearer that it's the name of the module and not some unspecified random module.
```suggestion
Python's `random` module is a standard library module that provides functions to generate pseudorandom numbers for various distributions. This module can lead to a vulnerability due to its predictability. The random module is based on the Mersenne Twister `MT19937`
```

> [[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995)], which is a deterministic algorithm, that, given a particular input, will always produce the same output [[Wikipedia 2024](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)]. An attacker knowing or can guessing the seed value can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two Random class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.

Reviewer 3: Grammatical error + I think adding backticks to `Random` would make it clearer that this is the name of the class:
```suggestion
[[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995)], which is a deterministic algorithm, that, given a particular input, will always produce the same output [[Wikipedia 2024](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)]. An attacker knowing or guessing the seed value can predict the entire sequence of the pseudorandom numbers. This also means that if two `Random` class objects are created using an identical seed, they will generate the same sequence of numbers, regardless of the Python environment.

```

> Therefore, the random module is unsuitable for applications requiring high security as it does not incorporate cryptographic randomness, which means it is not resistant to reverse engineering. Its limited entropy makes it easier for attackers to deduce the internal state of the generator and predict future outputs.

Reviewer 3: Same case as the line 9 comment.
```suggestion
Therefore, the `random` module is unsuitable for applications requiring high security as it does not incorporate cryptographic randomness, which means it is not resistant to reverse engineering. Its limited entropy makes it easier for attackers to deduce the internal state of the generator and predict future outputs.
```

|[[Python docs - os](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html)]|Python Software Foundation. (2023). os - Miscellaneous operating system interfaces [online]. Available from: [https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) [accessed 23 August 2023].|
|[[sonar 2024](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/)]|Sonar Rules - Using pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) is security-sensitive [online]. Available from: [https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/](https://rules.sonarsource.com/python/RSPEC-2245/) [accessed 7 September 2023]|
|[[Cloudflare 2017](https://blog.cloudflare.com/)]| Randomness 101: LavaRand in Production (cloudflare.com) [online]. Available from:[https://blog.cloudflare.com/randomness-101-lavarand-in-production/](https://blog.cloudflare.com/randomness-101-lavarand-in-production/). [accessed 12 December 2024]|
|[LavaRnd]|LAVARND ... truely random since 2000 [online]. Available from: [https://www.lavarand.org/](https://www.lavarand.org/) [accessed 12 December 2024]|

> |[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998]|Mersenne Twister: A 623-Dimensionally Equidistributed Uniform Pseudo-Random Number Generator [online]. Available from: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995) [accessed 12 December 2024]|

Reviewer 3: The Wikipedia reference was missing in the bibliography.
```suggestion
|[MATSUMOTO, NISHIMURA 1998]|Mersenne Twister: A 623-Dimensionally Equidistributed Uniform Pseudo-Random Number Generator [online]. Available from: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/272991.272995) [accessed 12 December 2024]|
|[[Wikipedia 2024](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)]|Deterministic algorithm [online]. Available from: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm) [accessed 12 December 2024]|
```
